# Federal-Reserve-Economic-Data-FRED-Web-Scraper-and-Database

**Purpose:** The goal of the project is to gather historical economic data from the Federal Reserve Economic Data (FRED) website and store it in a database. The data will be used to augment other datasets for future modeling efforts. <br>

**Gathering the data:** The data on the FRED is not represented in tabular format. The data for each indicator is displayed as a graph on its own page. The below code makes use of the FRED API to pull the historic values for each indicator. However, the FRED requires that each indicator is queried individually using a unique indicator ID. Unfortunately, a complete listing of the indicator IDs is not available in the API documentation. The BeautifulSoup package was used to create a web crawler to parse the FRED website and obtain a complete listing of the unique IDs for the economic indicators available. With the complete listing of unique IDs, we were able to use the API in conjunction with pandas to construct a data frame where each economic indicator is represented as a column and each row is a date. <br>

**Storing the data & automation of refreshing the database with updates to indicators:** It will be helpful for future modeling efforts to be able to access the economic data quickly. However, gathering all the indicators for a long reporting period can be time consuming. To avoid lengthy queries in the future, all the economic data was stored to a database. Additionally, a script is available to quickly refresh the database with newly reported metrics as they become available. <br>
